The modpack is a Vanilla++ focused modpack, make sure to keep the main gameplay that way, and if you really don’t enjoy default Minecraft you might find this modpack not as exciting. 

“The Vanilla+ side of it”
Progression should follow as such: First work your way up to enter the Nether, then find a Stronghold, fight the Ender Dragon and enjoy exploring End Cities.

Gameplay loop is exploring and gathering resources, preferably by mining and looting to improve your gear, build structures by hand for personal enjoyment and make farms to accumulate as many goods as possible. 
Only significant tweaks are focused on making it so now exploration is more difficult as to simply add a layer of difficulty to earlier game phases but also richer because of terrain/structure generation mods. Every other aspect of the game such as GUI, mob textures and models, vanilla mechanics like enchanting, inventory management, trading, etc. should be firstly enhanced or streamlined, sometimes untouched.

“The (++) part of the modpack”
The branches that sprout from the Vanilla experience gameplay are few yet incredibly important to understand.
To begin with, Iron's Spells and Spellbooks is second to the Vanilla experience in terms of priority for balance and design. It is intended to be the focus of the combat system as a whole.
Sanity for all intents and purposes is a layer of difficulty added to slightly raise the skill floor of the game by punishing little or no preparation when exploring.
Enhanced AI, Born in Chaos and Mob Sunscreen (along other mods that add mobs or tweak their behavior) also follow this concept when exploring the world or dwelling into dungeons.
When it comes to movement I found Minecraft’s default movement not really additive to the experience due to limitations on how the player may move, especially on the vertical plane, this being the reason why I added Wall-Jumped as a fix.
Other transportation methods besides player movement are enhanced, namely minecarts, boats, horses, and some are added, like Waystones, Immersive Aircrafts, and more.
As to complement the addition of these mods, Map Atlases is included as a vanilla-friendly, low performance and interactive way of mapping. 
More complex buildings are encouraged to complement the addition of new blocks provided by Create, Crafting Automat and similar mods focused on expanding on the current redstone system without the addition of much glitter.
